Welcome back.
The first part that contributes to
the complexity of transformer on long
sequences is the dot product attention.
To improve it, I will show you how
to use locality sensitive hashing,
which you've learned before.
Let me show you, in this picture you
can see what attention is doing.
Take the word it attention is focused on
certain words to determine if it refers
to the streets or to the animal.
For example, in the sentence
the animal didn't cross the street
because it was too tired,
it refers to the animal.
Or in the second example, the animal
didn't cross the street because it was too
wide, the only difference
being the last word.
It again refers to either the streets or
the animal, but
in this case it refers to the streets.
In both attentions you can see that it
is either the animal or the streets.
You only need to look at the nouns
because it can only refer to the nouns,
not all of the words.
A pronoun is a word that substitutes for
a noun.
Its for animal or its for streets for
example, as I just showed you.
So when working with pronouns, you know
you only need to look at the other nouns,
and you can ignore the other
words like it and was and tired.
This is an example of why you only want
to work with the nearest neighbors to
speed up the attention parts.
I'll explain how to do this next.
You already covered nearest
neighbors in course 1,
week 4 of the NLP specialization.
If KNN or locality sensitive
hashing sounds unfamiliar to you,
please take a moment to
review these lessons.
Please feel free to skip ahead if
you're familiar with both KNN and LSH.
You already know from earlier courses
that you can use locality sensitive
hashing to reduce the computational
costs of finding K nearest neighbors.
Let me show you how to do the same for
attention.
Using locality sensitive hashing,
you can hash both the query q and (q, k).
This helps you group similar query and
key vectors together,
just like the nouns with pronouns.
Examples you saw before,
then you only run attention on keys that
are in the same hash buckets as the query.
When choosing the hash you want to make
the buckets roughly the same size.
You know that hash of x is the sign
of x times R where R is random
with size of d for
dimension times the number of hash bins.
And design tells you which side
of the plane the hash will be on.
The process is then repeated depending
on the number of hashes that you have.
You also already know how
standard attention works.
Well, let me show you how to speed
this up using LSH attention.
First you hash Q and K,
then perform standard attention, but
within the same-hash bins.
This reduces the search space for
each K to the same LSH bucket as Q.
You can repeat this process multiple times
to increase the probability of
finding Q and K in the same bin.
And this can be done efficiently to
take advantage of parallel computing.
Now I'll show you how to integrate
LSH into attention layers.
To start, you modify the model so that it
outputs a single vector at each position,
which serves both as a query and a key.
This is called QK attention and performs
just as well as regular attention.
Next you might beach vector
to a bucket with LSH.
Then you sort the vectors by LSH bucket,
and
finally you do attention
only in each bucket.
You could do this one bucket at a time,
but
that doesn't take advantage
of hardware parallelism.
Instead, I'll show you how
to do a batch computation.
The first step for
batching is to split the sorted
sequence into fixed size chunks.
This allows for some parallel computation,
then you let each chunk
attend within itself.
And the adjacent chunks discovers the case
with a hash bucket that is split over
more than one chunk, like you see for the
blue, yellow, and magenta buckets here.
And that's the core of LSH attention.
One final point to consider is that LSH is
a probabilistic, not deterministic model.
This is because of the inherent
randomness within the LSH algorithm.
Meaning that the hash can change along
with the buckets a vector finds itself
map tune.
Now you understand how to speed up
attention in transformer using locality
sensitive hashing.
There's one more problem left to
running on long sequences, and
I'll show you how to solve
that in the next video.